---
layout: post

title: National 
description: Last Adventure 

author: Danielle Prieur
email: dmprieur@umich.edu
twitter: prieur2016
---
For the last data adventure, I wanted to focus on farming as my beat this quarter in Washington has been farming and agriculture. 

Last week I wrote a story about U.S. dairy farms, specifically how many smaller, family-owned farms are being forced to close because of a combination of low milk prices and high dairy production costs. 

Many farms, have such high debt from borrowing on equity per milk cow that they close second, third, in some cases even fifth or sixth generation family run and owned farms. 

I decided to analyze USDA data on financial indicators of U.S. farms released on February 9, 2016. The data charts farm income, expenses, assets, debt and equity from 2011 to 2016. 

Here's the Google Sheets of that orginal data: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ALx5Q3zCkOwbUhItm2fGwDxgoDztozVVxq16QffHOaY/edit?usp=sharing. 

Then, I decided to focus specifically on income and debt. If a farmer is making less profit on milk or cheese, for example, will they have more debt (in other words, will they have to borrow more money to buy more milk cows, hire on local farm hands, etc.?)

I focused on just the income and debt columns. Here's the data on Google Sheets: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yKe-5cJOKkKgapaz33orvgbfZzm7gUYAEL87jVAl1yM/edit?usp=sharing.

When I charted the income and debt data against a linear regression model that had a good prediction value of R squared 0.744 (the closer to 1, the higher the accuracies of predications made with the regression model), I noticed that as income decreases for farming families, as it has been over the past decade, their debt also increases. Many dairy farmers I've talked to said as milk prices drop and subsidy programs are cut, they've had to take out so many loans, that their debt has gotten to a point where they've had to sell their farms.  

Here's the linear regression of income versus debt on Google Sheets: <iframe width="600" height="371" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yKe-5cJOKkKgapaz33orvgbfZzm7gUYAEL87jVAl1yM/pubchart?oid=978800834&amp;format=interactive"></iframe>

Also in this form on Google Sheets: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yKe-5cJOKkKgapaz33orvgbfZzm7gUYAEL87jVAl1yM/pubchart?oid=978800834&format=interactive

When I calculated the intercept value it was about 423, corresponding to the point when farm debt would be at its highest and farmers would essentially be making an income close to zero. In other words, when farm debt gets this high, close to 420 billion dollars, farmers will most likely have to sell their farms. This is concerning as debt is already at around 370 billion dollars (only about 50 billion dollars away from this intercept value) and farmers' incomes keep falling. If debt continues to rise, and income continues to fall, many small, family farms will have to sell their famrs (as many in the dairy industry are already doing). 

To test this hypothesis, I decided to forecast what would happen if income kept falling to about 40 billion dollars. The debt would then increase to about 382 billion dollars, getting closer to that 420 billion dollar intercept value. If income increases to 120 billion dollars, however (in most cases this means getting a higher price for agricultural products and more subsidy assistance), then debt would decrease to about 299 billion dollars. As Congress prepares to enter into a new session in September and several farming bills are considered, it might be important to remember that price increases and subsidy programs have never been more crucial than they are now. According to a USDA "National Agriculture Census" from 2015, 88 percent of farms are small, family farms and 58 percent of our food comes directly from these farms. If small, family farms continue to close, and are replaced by larger, corporate owned farms what will happen to the farming industry and just as important the quality of our food? 

***Based on the fact that the R2 value is less than 0.8, this data might be better fit to a polynomial regression (although the R2 is still less than 0.8 at 7.8). The polynomial regression might better take into account the non-linear nature of this data, as some years the income and data are affected by outside factors like economic trends in the global market and diseases in cows that decrease production.***

