---
layout: post

title: Detroit
description: First Adventure

author: Danielle Prieur
email: dmprieur@umich.edu
twitter: prieur2016
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/wOtxxwO1WN4" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you ask Detroiters about parking in "the D", they'll probably say there needs to more, it needs to be cheaper, and it needs to be safer. 

As a Detroiter myself, I would have never guessed one of the highest paid city officials is the parking director. 

But he is. 

Norman White, the Director of Municipal Parking for the City of Detroit, was paid a whopping $1,475,000.00 by the City of Detroit last year. That's 12 percent of the total salary for all city employees and well outside the median salary of employees, which was about $109,999.50. 

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ffV6tkBqEoDpq5PSOU4GeIJOxlMmb7bM1MAiYL3cV-E/pubchart?oid=188941267&format=interactive

Not only is this number high compared to other city employee's salaries, but the mayor's proposed budget for the City of Detroit for the 2016-2017 fiscal year. 

In the budget, the total recommended salary and wages for the Municipal Parking Department is only $3,476,614. Of the 94 employees who work in the department, White makes about a third of these wages. 

And this isn't the first time that a salary seemed just a little too high in the department.  

An audit of the Municipal Parking Department conducted by Mark Lockridge, the Michigan Auditor General, in September 2014, found that the Auto Parking System (APS), one of the two divisions of the departments was not only "co-mingling personal funds with parking facilities' revenues," but billing the department for manager bonuses that hadn’t been approved. 

In other words, at Cadillac Farmer Garage, Ford Underground Garage, Grand Circus Park, and Millennium Garage between 2010 and 2013, there were either no records of checks, checks made out to cash, or checks made out to employees' relatives. 

"Employees cashed paychecks and personal checks using the daily revenue. 139 checks were cashed totaling to $32,836.32,” the report said. 

Employees also gave themselves $5,935 in bonuses between 2012 and 2013. 

Norman White, in a response addressed to Lockridge called the audit "deeply troubling" and blamed the money laundering in his department on "staffing issues" including high employee turnover and understaffing in the finance department. 

At the time, he said his department had hired a new finance manager and business accountant for 2014 "which would ensure a system of checks and balances." 

"Cash collected will always be deposited intact and all staff will know the consequences of any deviations,” said White. 

But with a salary that is equivalent to almost 2 percent of his department's budget, maybe it's time for another audit?






