---
layout: post

title: Detroit
description: First Adventure

author: Danielle Prieur
email: dmprieur@umich.edu
twitter: prieur2016
---

The Bad/The Ugly…
I guess the reason I didn’t like NBC’s, “Hillary Clinton's Lead Over Trump Shrinks After Controversial Week: Poll,” is because of two things we talked about in class last week. 

First, it feels like NBC threw data into a Google Spreadsheet and then did little else with it. For example, in the first chart of Trump versus Saunders, there aren’t even labels on the x and y axes: what do the percentages represent on the y axis? The percent of voters who would vote for each candidate? And the percent of which voters-a specific state, a socioeconomic or ethnic group? What do the dates on the x axis represent? 2016? 1950? Why were the polls calculated over six day increments instead of five or seven? Very little is explained about how the data was collected or what it means. 

The same is true for the bar charts. Although their choice of colors means that color blind readers will be able to distinguish between the bars, what does the all column mean? All candidates? What about candidates no longer running, are they included? What about Libertarian candidates, who are not affiliated with a party, are they included? And who was polled for this information-people in the Senate or voters? 

Second, I think they should rethink the types of charts they’re using. I think the top chart should use a logarithmic scale as the difference between the two lines is so small, almost insignificant. This would effectively zoom into the data for readers. I know the article is trying to illustrate how the “lead shrinks after a controversial week,” but it might be more beneficial to include dates before the week to show the shift in the data, a curve rather than two almost identical lines. 

I think the horizontal bar charts make it hard to read the data. I would turn the charts on their side, so that they are vertical bars and consolidate the data into one bar chart. For example, the y axis would read level of approval and the x axis would read “appropriate”, “all,” “Clinton,” and “Saunders.” I would also chart fewer variables at once: for example, if I tell a reader, 50 percent think that “Clinton” uses her email in an appropriate manner, they can probably infer 50 percent do not. As it’s clearer to represent data phrased in a positive way “things people agree with” rather than “things people don’t agree with,” I would chart the data based on what “people think is appropriate.” 

Third, I guess I have a problem with the terminology of “appropriate.” What is appropriate-it seems like a rather subjective term? What is the baseline in the data for normal and who determines what this baseline will be? Maybe this was how it was phrased in the survey, but I might change this to who thinks the email use was “professional” or “standard” and I would include some kind of control in the data: this could be data taken from voters’ use of email in their daily lives and jobs or other politicians. 


The Good: 
I really like the “Wall Street Journal” “What Hillary Clinton May Look for in Her Vice President” and “What Bernie Sanders May Look for in His Vice President.”

First, I like data journalism that is interactive almost game-like (in this case like “Choose Your Own Adventure”). I think it engages the user, by forcing them to think through the decisions both campaigns will need to make. Will the candidate be male or female? What about their age? Their experience? Their socioeconomic, ethnic, or religious background? And then to think about their decision in terms of the message it sends (which the generated text explains) and in terms of its popularity (which the chart explains). For example, if I chose “female” after the first question, the generated text might explain that this would “reinforce the historic nature of her candidacy,” i.e. the fact she is the first female candidate for president. It would also generate a graph how “enthusiastic” voters would be about this decision (in this case, based on how enthusiastic they are about Clinton as the first female president. 

Second, I like the way there are two parts of this interactive. You can click through to make different decisions on the right, but on the left you can simply view which candidates correspond with these decisions. For example, if I chose female, and non-white, by looking at the column on the left, I would quickly see something: “We can’t think of any candidates who fit all of these criteria.” In other words, in 2016 during the largest civil rights movement since 1964, there are no candidates for vice president who are both female and a person of color. This absence of a graphic is as powerful as text in conveying this problem. 

Third, I like the way I can quickly and easily start over to make different decisions or simply click on the list of candidates on the left to click through and read about each candidate. Although I would like more of the text of the interactive to be reflected in this list of candidates, it is a good alternative for users who might have less time to use the interactive or who are using a smartphone. For example, I would like more information when I click on “Julian Castro” beyond that his is “Housing Director in Texas,” possibly something about his political platform, his experience, etc. 

The only critique of the interactive that I have are the questions themselves. I don’t think they necessarily cover all the major issues that voters are concerned with in this election. For example, why is business experience one of the questions but stance on women’s health or education, not (two important platforms for Hillary’s campaign)? I think the questions are necessarily broad, but it might be more interesting for readers and users to know where vide presidential candidates stand on more campaign-specific questions. 

